# MANIEA
This repository is the experimental code for the paper "MANIEA: A Microbial Association Network Inference Method Based on Improved Eclat Association Rule Mining Algorithm" published on Bioinformatics (DOI: https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab241).<br><br>
## Install
This package is written in Python3. Before running the code, it is necessary to install some python packages, including feather, networkx, numpy, pandas, matplotlib, itertools. The description and installation method of the package ‘feather’ can be found on this website:<br><br>
https://blog.rstudio.com/2016/03/29/feather/<br><br>
## Background
Modelling microbiome systems as complex networks is known as the problem of network inference. Microbial association network inference is of great significance in applications on clinical diagnosis, disease treatment, pathological analysis, etc. We proposed a microbial association network inference method "MANIEA" based on the improved Eclat algorithm for mining positive and negative microbial association rules. An experiment was conducted on three authentic microbial abundance datasets to compare the "MANIEA" with currently popular network inference methods. Please refer to our paper for details.<br><br>
The experiment data is extracted from the "MicrobiomrHD" database (https://zenodo.org/record/569601#.YJ-2_Ifis2x).<br><br>
## Introduction
There are three folders, ‘Baxter’, ‘Singh’ and ‘Zupancic’, corresponding to the three experiment datasets in this paper. Each folder contains related experimental data and experimental code. Taking the ‘Baxter’ dataset for illustration, the folder contains two types of files, the experimental data files in ‘.feather’ format and the python experimental codes in ‘.py’ format.<br><br>
The experimental data contains two files, ‘crc_baxter.metadata.clean.feather’ and ‘crc_baxter.otu_table.clean.feather’. The ‘crc_baxter.metadata.clean.feather’ file contains the basic information of the experimental subjects, including the sample number, age, gender, BMI index, health status, sampling organ, sampling time and so on. The ‘crc_baxter.otu_table.clean.feather’ file contains the microbial abundance data for each sample.<br><br>
Each network inference method corresponds to two code files, the main code and the code for network appearance adjustment. Taking the code files of the network inference method based on the Apriori algorithm as an illustration, the ‘Baxter-Apriori.py’ file is the main code file. It contains codes for reading experimental data, dividing data by the sample health state, random sampling of data, mining frequent itemsets, generating positive association rules, building microbial association networks, calculating network topology indexes, etc. Besides, to adjust network visualization effects flexibly, we write it in an independent code file ‘For Network Appearance Adjustment-Apriori.py’ to avoid the unnecessary rerunning of the entire data mining process when users want to make subtle adjustments to the visualization effect of the network model. In this file, users can adjust the layout of the network model, the colour, shape, size, label of nodes, the colour, thickness, style of edges, and other visual effects. Users can also increase the calculation of other network topology indexes according to actual needs.<br><br>
## Usage
When running the code, it is suggested to first run the main code file, which will automatically save the necessary results as ‘.csv’ and ‘.png’ files. It is important to note that the code for network appearance adjustment can only be run after the main code file has been run. Because the running of the code for network appearance adjustment is based on the results of the main code. After the main code and the code for network appearance adjustment are run, the experimental results shown in the paper can be gotten, including the code running time, network models, network topology index values, etc. These results can be viewed from the direct output of the code and files saved during the running of the code.<br><br>
## License
Copyright belongs to the author of this project. If you need to use this code, please refer to the paper "MANIEA: A Microbial Association Network Inference Method Based on Improved Eclat Association Rule Mining Algorithm" (DOI: https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab241) in your work.<br><br>
If you encounter problems running the code, please contact the author (lmdnudt@hotmail.com).
